KIETTISAK CHANHOM, M.Eng.
Senior Software Engineer | Database Analyst
Toronto, ON, Canada
linkedin.com/in/KChanhom
Tel: +1 (647)-388-6600
Email: kiettisak.chan@gmail.com
Career Highlight / Professional Summary
Accomplished and results-oriented software and data engineer and consultant with over a decade of
experience delivering scalable software, data, and cloud solutions across enterprise and government
sectors. Highly proficient in C#, .NET, Python, and modern cloud-based platforms, with extensive expertise
in Kubernetes-based systems, ETL pipelines, and database technologies. Experienced in developing
resilient monitoring and incident-management frameworks using Grafana, Splunk, DataDog, New Relic,
ServiceNow, and PagerDuty. Proficient in transforming complex datasets into actionable insights through
Power BI, Tableau, Python, and advanced automation.
● Programming, Development, and Frameworks:
o Languages: C#, .NET, Python, Scala, Smalltalk Language, Java, VB, JavaScript, SQL, T-SQL,
PLSQL, and CSS
o Frameworks: ASP.NET MVC, Akka Stream, Play Framework, Flask, FastAPI, Telerik, Kendo UI and
Devexpress
o Content Management System: Umbraco and WordPress
o IDE: Visual Studio, VS Code, PyCharm, and NetBeans
● Database:
o SQL Server, MySQL, MS SQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Hadoop, MariaDB, and Snowflake
o ETL/ Data Integration: SSIS and FiveTran
● Monitoring and Automation Tools
o Grafana, Prometheus, Datadog, Splunk, New Relic, PagerDuty, and ServiceNow
● DevOps and Cloud-based Platforms:
o Cloud: Azure, AWS, and Google Cloud
o CI/CD & Containerization: Docker, Kubernetes, Github, GitLab, Bitbucket, and Jenkins
o SaaS Applications: Implemented, deployed, and supported vendor and custom SaaS platforms,
including configuration, automation, and incident management
● Reporting and Visualization:
o Power BI, Tableau, Bokeh, Plotly, and Crystal Reports
● Software Management and Development Practices:
o Agile (SCRUM), Jira, Object-Oriented Programming, Design Patterns, and Design Data Structures
Professional Experiences
Improving | Toronto, ON
Senior Consultant / Management Service Engineer | July 2024 – December 2025
● Designed and implemented operational and incident-analysis dashboards in Tableau, transforming
data from Fivetran into Snowflake, performing thorough data validation, modeling, and metric design
to deliver actionable insights for decision-making.
● Collaborated with data engineering teams to optimize end-to-end ETL workflows, ensuring structured,
high-quality data that enhanced analytics readiness and improved downstream reporting efficiency.
● Managed Services team and application support for Norwegian Cruise Line’s Proxima and EmbarkD
applications, using incident/change tracking solutions such as ServiceNow and PagerDuty.
Updated on December 9th, 2025 Chanhom C., MEng | Full CV Page 1
Improving | Toronto, ON (Cont.)
Senior Consultant / Management Service Engineer | July 2024 – December 2025
● Designed and implemented proactive monitoring solutions using Grafana, Prometheus, and Kafka to
enhance system reliability and minimize downtime.
● Skilled in managing service changes, troubleshooting issues, and handling complex incidents.
● Developed critical dashboards in Splunk and Datadog to track key performance metrics and surface
early warning signals with mitigation strategies.
● Monitored and analyzed key indicators such as Kafka Consumer Lag and ZooKeeper latency.
● Investigated, researched, and optimized code-level issues and logging systems to improve
performance and accelerate incident detection.
● Collaborated with cross-functional teams to optimize service performance, ensure high availability, and
strengthen cloud infrastructure resilience to meet clients’ needs.
Yoppworks | Toronto, ON
Senior Consultant / Python Automation QA Engineer | June 2022 – July 2024
● Served as Senior Consultant on the Canada Post project, implementing robust testing strategies across
multiple Kubernetes clusters.
● Defined the scope of automated tests aligned with business requirements, fostering a collaborative
team environment to meet sprint goals.
● Developed and integrated CI/CD pipelines for Python-based automated tests.
● Implemented assertions and validations for Kubernetes cluster responses via REST APIs in Python.
● Performed release testing during bi-weekly continuous deployments, leveraging CI/CD pipelines and
collaborating with team and business leaders using Agile tools.
● Provided daily application support for vendor SaaS applications, including troubleshooting, issue
resolution, and coordination with internal stakeholders and external vendors.
YoppWorks Inc. | Toronto, ON
Scala Developer | April 2021 – May 2022
• Designed and implemented reactive microservices using Scala, Akka Streams, Play Framework, Kafka,
and Cassandra, efficiently processing over 500k transactions daily.
• Deployed and managed microservices on Kubernetes within Azure Cloud, ensuring high scalability and
resilience.
• Identified and resolved system performance bottlenecks, improving application reliability and enhancing
end-user experience.
iVedha Inc. | Toronto, ON
Cost Optimization Analyst | May 2020 – March 2021
● Analyzed data using Python to develop cost-saving strategies, resulting in a 15% reduction in cloud
infrastructure costs.
● Created visualizations with Bokeh and Plotly to provide insights for decision-makers.
● Researches and conducts analysis seeking opportunities for improvement and provides
recommendations and actionable insights to facilitate efficiency improvements.
● Develop the health data centre by collecting Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) from
various data sources and using that data to conduct analyses to improve the system and enhance the
service, assisting our customer (Innoneo Health System Inc).
JLControl | Remote work, Bangkok, Thailand
Senior Software Developer | January 2020 – August 2020
● Successfully migrated a Credit System web application from C# to ASP.NET MVC, achieving a 60%
improvement in performance.
● Led the UI redesign using Umbraco, DevExpress MVC, and MSSQL, significantly enhancing usability
and user experience.
Updated on December 9th, 2025 Chanhom C., MEng | Full CV Page 2
JLControl | Remote work, Bangkok, Thailand (Cont.)
Senior Software Developer | January 2020 – August 2020
● Implement Telerik reporting to generate professional, standardized formal reports.
● Modernized data infrastructure by migrating multiple legacy databases to a cloud-based big data
platform via ETL processes, improving scalability and accessibility.
● Partnered with cross-functional teams to ensure the revamped UI met both functional and aesthetic
requirements, aligning with business goals.
● Led and supported technical and on-perm business projects within the Legal, Compliance, and
Government Relations portfolio – a Thai government initiative.
PranWorks Co., Ltd. | Chiang Mai, Thailand
Senior Software Engineer Team Lead | January 2014 – February 2020
● Designed and implemented software solutions adhering to Agile principles, enabling adaptability and
efficiency in project delivery.
● Built and maintained strong client relationships, working closely with Thai government stakeholders to
gather requirements and ensure project success.
● Provided strategic insights into product strengths and areas for improvement, driving informed decision-
making and maximizing product value and workflow.
● Led team sprints, conducted precise project estimations, and ensured timely delivery, consistently
exceeding client expectations.
● Oversaw the end-to-end software design and development lifecycle, focusing on delivering high-quality,
client-centric solutions.
● Expert in ASP.NET MVC, MSSQL, IIS, GitHub, Ajax, JSON, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.
● Developed business requirement documents and specifications, and provided technical and business
project guidance for on-premises and SaaS applications with various partners.
Guru-Service | Bangkok, Thailand
Senior Software Engineer | January 2013 – January 2014
● Played a key role in developing ASP.NET applications, utilizing technologies like Ajax, JavaScript,
Oracle, and MSSQL to deliver high-performance, scalable solutions.
● Developed ASP.NET applications leveraging Ajax, JavaScript, Oracle, and MSSQL to deliver scalable
and high-performance functionality.
● Designed and implemented flexible web services to integrate with multiple database systems according
to user requirements.
Material Automation | Bangkok, Thailand
Programmer | September 2011 – January 2013
● Customized and optimized ERP systems to align with client specifications, significantly improving
operational efficiency and user satisfaction.
● Led the development of Windows applications, providing tailored solutions to streamline and automate
business processes.
● Demonstrated proficiency in a wide array of technologies, including VB.NET, C#, VB6, Excel, CSV,
Barcode, Smalltalk, Crystal Reports, Excel Macros, MSSQL, Oracle, and PL/SQL, ensuring flexibility
and adaptability in project execution.
Professional Certifications
● Google Cloud Professional Data Engineer Certificate
● Advanced C# Programming in .NET Core
● IBM: Machine Learning with Python
● Reactive Architecture: Introduction to Reactive System
Updated on December 9th, 2025 Chanhom C., MEng | Full CV Page 3
Professional Certifications (cont.)
● Reactive Architecture: Domain Driven Design
● Reactive Architecture: Building Scalable System
● Reactive Architecture: Distributed Messaging Patterns
● Reactive Architecture: CQRS & Event Sourcing
● Certified Reactive Architect Exam v4
● Lightbend Telemetry Installation - Level 1
● Lightbend Scale Language - Professional
● Lightbend Java Language Lambdas - Level 1
● Lightbend Java Language Futures - Level 1
● Lightbend Lagom for Java Hello World - Level 1
● Lightbend Lagom for Java Hello World - Level 1
● Lightbend Data Engineering Data Principles
● Lightbend Data Engineering Cloudflow Principles
● Lightbend Akka for Scala - Professional
● Lightbend Akka Cluster - Fundamentals - Level 2
● Lightbend Akka Cluster - Sharding (Scala)
● Lightbend Akka Streams for Scala Professional - Level 2
● MCSD: Web application
● MS: Programming in HTML5 with JavaScript and CSS3
● MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional
● MCSD: App Builder
● MCSA: Web Applications (Charter)
● Microsoft Applied Skills: Develop generative AI apps with Azure OpenAI and Semantic Kernel
(working towards obtaining)
Licenses
• Microsoft License F791-9844 September 2016 to 2018
• Microsoft License F791-7110 September 2016
• Microsoft License F791-7105 September 2016
• Microsoft License F815-4707 September 2016
• Microsoft License F815-4708
Education
Master’s Degree (Database), Computer Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Chiang Mai University, Thailand.
Bachelor’s Degree, Computer Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Chiang Mai University, Thailand.
Scientific Presentations / Publications
2009 – 2011
2005 – 2009
• Chanhom, K., & Natwichai, J. (2011). An efficient approach for data-duplication detection based on
RDBMS. In 2011 Eighth International Joint Conference on Computer Science and Software
Engineering (JCSSE) (pp. 325-330). IEEE.
Updated on December 9th, 2025 Chanhom C., MEng | Full CV Page 4